<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [

<!ENTITY haruna "<application>Haruna</application>">
<!ENTITY i18n-translatable-entity "<application>Haruna</application>">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<!--
 SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 George Florea Bănuș <georgefb899@gmail.com>

 SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
 -->

<book id="haruna" lang="&language;">

    <bookinfo>
        <title>The &haruna; Handbook</title>

        <authorgroup>
            <author>
                <personname>
                    <firstname>George</firstname>
                    <surname>Florea Bănuș</surname>
                </personname>
                <email>georgefb899@gmail.com</email>
            </author>
        </authorgroup>

        <copyright>
            <year>2019-2022</year>
            <holder>George Florea Bănuș</holder>
        </copyright>
        <legalnotice>&CCBYSA4Notice;</legalnotice>

        <date>2022-08-17</date>
        <releaseinfo>Haruna 0.9.0</releaseinfo>

        <abstract>
            <para>Haruna is an open source video player built with Qt/QML and libmpv.</para>
        </abstract>

        <keywordset>
            <keyword>Haruna</keyword>
            <keyword>KDE</keyword>
            <keyword>kdemultimedia</keyword>
            <keyword>video</keyword>
            <keyword>movie</keyword>
        </keywordset>
    </bookinfo>

    <chapter id="settings">
        <title>Settings</title>
        <para>Explains some of the more complex settings of Haruna.</para>
        <section><title></title><para></para></section>

        <section id="GeneralSettings">
            <title>General</title>
            <section>
                <title>File dialog location</title>
                <para>The folder the file dialog will load when used to open a file.
    If empty it will remember the last folder from which a file was opened.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Maximum recent files</title>
                <para>How many recent files to save and display in the recent files menu.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Remember window size and position</title>
                <para>Restores the size and position the window had when it was closed. On <emphasis>Wayland</emphasis> only size is restored.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Breeze icon theme</title>
                <para>When checked the application uses the Breeze icon theme.</para>
                <para>When unchecked the application uses the system icon theme. Doesn't always work as expected.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>GUI style</title>
                <para>
                    Allows to change the style of Qt Quick Controls (buttons, checkboxes etc.), to styles available on the system.
                </para>
            </section>
        </section>

        <section id="PlaybackSettings">
            <title>Playback</title>
            <section>
                <title>Seek steps</title>
                <para>How much to seek when triggering the coresponding action. Seek mode is <emphasis>exact</emphasis> <ulink url="https://mpv.io/manual/stable/#command-interface-seek-&lt;target&gt;-[&lt;flags&gt;]">
    https://mpv.io/manual/stable/#command-interface-seek-&lt;target&gt;-[&lt;flags&gt;]</ulink>.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Open last played file on startup</title>
                <para>On startup it opens the file that was playing when the application was closed.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Seek to last playback position</title>
                <para>When opening a file that was played before it will seek to the position it was when playback stopped.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Start playing</title>
                <para>This applies only when resuming playback (seeking to last playback position) of a file that was played before.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Pause on minimize</title>
                <para>Pauses the player while the window is minimized, playback resumes when restored.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Hardware decoding</title>
                <para>If you enable hardware decoding it's recommended to use the auto-safe or auto options.</para>
                <para>You can read more about each option here: <ulink url="https://mpv.io/manual/stable/#options-hwdec">https://mpv.io/manual/stable/#options-hwdec</ulink>.</para>
                <para>If you want to use vaapi on X11, you must set the environment variable <emphasis>QT_XCB_GL_INTEGRATION</emphasis> to <emphasis>xcb_egl</emphasis>.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Remember time position</title>
                <para>Determines when to save and restore the position of previously played files.</para>
                <para>First field controls for which files to save the position:</para>
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>-1: feature is disabled</para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>0: save for all files</para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>1-9999: save for files longer than the set value, in minutes</para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
                <para>Second field controls how often to save the position.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Skip chapters</title>
                <para>When enabled it automatically skips chapters containing certain words/characters.</para>
                <para>The words/characters to skip are defined as a comma separated string.</para>
                <para>The match is not exact, meaning <emphasis>op</emphasis> will match
                words containing it like <emphasis>opening</emphasis>.</para>
            </section>

            <section>
                <title>Youtube-dl format selection</title>
                <para>
                Haruna uses youtube-dl to play online videos. Some sites offer multiple versions of the video/audio (different codecs, resolution). This setting allows you to configure what version of the video/audio youtube-dl selects.
                More info: <ulink url="https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl/blob/master/README.md#format-selection">https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl/blob/master/README.md#format-selection</ulink>
                </para>
            </section>
        </section>

        <section id="VideoSettings">
            <title>Video</title>
            <section>
                <title>Screenshot Template</title>
                <para><ulink url="https://mpv.io/manual/stable/#screenshot">https://mpv.io/manual/stable/#screenshot</ulink></para>
                <para>Specify the filename template used to save screenshots.
                The template specifies the filename without file extension,
                and can contain format specifiers, which will be substituted when taking a screenshot.
                By default, the template is mpv-shot%n, which results in filenames like mpv-shot0012.png for example.</para>
                <para>The template can start with a relative or absolute path, in order to specify a directory location where screenshots should be saved.</para>
                <para>If the final screenshot filename points to an already existing file, the file will not be overwritten. The screenshot will either not be saved, or if the template contains %n, saved using a different, newly generated filename.</para>
                <para>Allowed format specifiers:</para>
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>%[#][0X]n</para>
                        <para>A sequence number, padded with zeros to length X (default: 04). E.g. passing the format %04n will yield 0012 on the 12th screenshot. The number is incremented every time a screenshot is taken or if the file already exists. The length X must be in the range 0-9. With the optional # sign, mpv will use the lowest available number. For example, if you take three screenshots--0001, 0002, 0003--and delete the first two, the next two screenshots will not be 0004 and 0005, but 0001 and 0002 again.</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%f</para>
                        <para>Filename of the currently played video.</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%F</para>
                        <para>Same as %f, but strip the file extension, including the dot.</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%x</para>
                        <para>Directory path of the currently played video. If the video is not on the filesystem (but e.g. http://), this expands to an empty string.</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%X{fallback}</para>
                        <para>Same as %x, but if the video file is not on the filesystem, return the fallback string inside the {...}.</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%p</para>
                        <para>Current playback time, in the same format as used in the OSD. The result is a string of the form "HH:MM:SS". For example, if the video is at the time position 5 minutes and 34 seconds, %p will be replaced with "00:05:34".</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%P</para>
                        <para>Similar to %p, but extended with the playback time in milliseconds. It is formatted as "HH:MM:SS.mmm", with "mmm" being the millisecond part of the playback time.</para>
                        <para>Note</para>
                        <para>This is a simple way for getting unique per-frame timestamps. (Frame numbers would be more intuitive, but are not easily implementable because container formats usually use timestamps for identifying frames.)</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%wX</para>
                        <para>Specify the current playback time using the format string X. %p is like %wH:%wM:%wS, and %P is like %wH:%wM:%wS.%wT.</para>
                        <para>Valid format specifiers:</para>
                        <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>%wH</para>
                            <para>hour (padded with 0 to two digits)</para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>%wh</para>
                            <para>hour (not padded)</para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>%wM</para>
                            <para>minutes (00-59)</para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>%wm</para>
                            <para>total minutes (includes hours, unlike %wM)</para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>%wS</para>
                            <para>seconds (00-59)</para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>%ws</para>
                            <para>total seconds (includes hours and minutes)</para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>%wf</para>
                            <para>like %ws, but as float</para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>%wT</para>
                            <para>milliseconds (000-999)</para>
                        </listitem>
                        </itemizedlist>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%tX</para>
                        <para>Specify the current local date/time using the format X. This format specifier uses the UNIX strftime() function internally, and inserts the result of passing "%X" to strftime. For example, %tm will insert the number of the current month as a number. You have to use multiple %tX specifiers to build a full date/time string.</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%{prop[:fallback text]}</para>
                        <para>Insert the value of the input property 'prop'. E.g. %{filename} is the same as %f. If the property does not exist or is not available, an error text is inserted, unless a fallback is specified.</para>
                    </listitem>

                    <listitem>
                        <para>%%</para>
                        <para>Replaced with the % character itself.</para>
                    </listitem>

                </itemizedlist>
            </section>
        </section>

        <section id="CustomCommandsSettings">
            <title>Custom commands</title>
            <section>
                <title>Command</title>
                <para>What mpv command to run, see <ulink url="https://mpv.io/manual/stable/#list-of-input-commands">MPV Commands</ulink> for a list of available commands.</para>
                <para>Not all commands will work as some are specific for mpv.</para>
                <para>Most useful are the commands to manipulate properties, like set, add, cycle.</para>
                <para><emphasis>set</emphasis>: sets the value of a property <code>set volume-max 150</code>.</para>
                <para><emphasis>add</emphasis>: increases/decreases the value of a property <code>add volume 15</code>, increases volume by 15. To decrease the value use <code>add volume -15</code>.</para>
                <para><emphasis>cycle</emphasis>: cycle through the values of a property <code>cycle aid up</code>.</para>
            </section>
            <section>
                <title>OSD message</title>
                <para>An OSD message to display when triggering an action type custom command.</para>
                <para>Use ${property_name} to display the value of a property Volume: ${volume}.</para>
            </section>
            <section>
                <title>Keyboard shortcut</title>
                <para>The command will be triggered with a shortcut. The shortcut can be set after saving.</para>
            </section>
            <section>
                <title>Run at startup</title>
                <para>The command will be run at application startup. Startup commands can be toggled, meaning you can choose whether they are set on startup or not, this is available after saving.</para>
            </section>
        </section>
    </chapter>

    <chapter id="credits">
        <title>Credits and License</title>
        <para>&haruna;</para>
        <para>Program copyright 2019-2021 George Florea Bănuș</para>
        <para>
            Contributors:
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>George Florea Bănuș <email>georgefb899@gmail.com</email></para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
            Documentation Copyright &copy; 2019-2021 George Florea Bănuș <email>georgefb899@gmail.com</email>
        </para>

    <!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
    &underCCBYSA4; <!-- CC BY-SA 4.0: do not remove -->
    &underGPL;     <!-- GPL License -->
    </chapter>

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=2:shiftwidth=2:expandtab
kate: space-indent on; indent-width 2; tab-width 2; indent-mode none;
-->
